

"Pure mathematics is, in its way, the poetry of logical ideas."- Albert Einstein

No matter how nice and simple this quote makes us think mathematics is, we are sure that for many of you, mathematics as a subject seems no less than a nightmare. The calculation which includes alphabets, let alone numbers, was no less than a herculean task to complete. However, the fact remains that Mathematics is an essential subject for students. Even though numbers can be scary sometimes, but if learned properly and with fun, they can be pretty amazing and cool.


ADVERTISEMENT

To make our point, let's check out a few interesting facts about mathematics:
1. Google is all about mathematics

The lifeline of today's time, Google, derived its name from the word 'googol' -- a mathematical term for the number 1 followed by 100 zeros, which reflect infinite amount of search on the internet.

2. Crazy multiplications

Abhishek
MUST READ
Watch: Abhishek Sharma's sister shares video of parents celebrating batter's century

TRENDING TOPICS:
NEET Row
Parilament Session
Arvind Kejriwal Bail
Actor Darshan Arrest
T20 World Cup
A very interesting things about math is how crazy it gets with its function. For instance, if you multiply 111,111,111 by 111,111,111, this becomes equal to 12,345,678,987,654,321.

3. The terminology dilemma
This debate is going on for a long time now. But the answer depends on which part of the world you are in. Americans called mathematics 'math', saying that the function of the same is a singular noun and with that logic, they prefer saying 'math', which is singular too. On the other hand, speakers of British English would always say 'maths', as in 'I have a degree in maths'.


ADVERTISEMENT

However, there are logical arguments for both the spellings. The Oxford and the Merriam-Webster dictionaries say the word is plural because of the letter 's' in the end. On the contrary however, it is usually used as a singular noun. For example, 'Mathematics is my favourite subject' and not 'Mathematics are my favourite subject'.

Other plural nouns that are used as if they were singular are economics, ethics, politics, gymnastics, measles and dominoes. These words, however, are not habitually shortened, making math/maths rather an unusual word.

4. Dreadfully long division
Another mind-boggling application of maths comes in when the number 1 is divided by 998,001. The answer would give you a complete sequence from 000 to 999 in order. Don't agree with us? Go ahead and try it, and be ready to waste one entire notebook!

5. Pizza and math: Are they related?

We may seem like someone who is ruining pizza for you but you will be amazed to know its relation with maths. To find out the volume of the cylindrical shape of the pizza, the formula used is Pi x r2 x h.

So, if an ordinary pizza has a radius of 'z' and height 'a', its volume is Pi x z x z x a which makes up 'pizza'.

6. Magical digit!

Shopping
LPG cylinder booking
LPG cylinder booking
₹ 1
(Refurbished) Samsung Galaxy S23 FE 5G (Mint, 8GB, 128GB Storage)
(Refurbished) Samsung Galaxy S23 FE 5G (Mint, 8GB, 128GB Storage)
₹ 49998
HIT Anti Roach Gel - Cockroach Killer (20g) | Kitchen Safe | Odourless | Fast and Convenient, Pack of 1
HIT Anti Roach Gel - Cockroach Killer (20g) | Kitchen Safe | Odourless | Fast and Convenient, Pack of 1
₹ 249
Presto! Garbage Bags, Medium - (19 x 21 Inches) - 30 Bags/Roll, 180 Count (Pack Of 6, Black), Plastic
Presto! Garbage Bags, Medium - (19 x 21 Inches) - 30 Bags/Roll, 180 Count (Pack Of 6, Black), Plastic
₹ 379
View More Products
The number 9 is believed to be a magical number with certain very interesting properties. This is because if you multiply a number with 9, and add all the digits of the resulting number, the sum would always come out to be 9.

7. Zero is not there in Roman numerals

Did you know that one of the most important numbers, zero, is not represented in the Roman numerals? Derived from the Arabic word, 'sifr', it is known from a variety of other names like naught, zip, nil and zilch.

8. Did Shakespeare too have issues with maths?

No don't get us wrong, Shakespeare was a literature lover and not a math lover, but the only time he included the word 'mathematics' was in his play, The Taming of the Shrew.

9. What comes after a million?

After a million comes--- billion, trillion, quadrillion, quintillion, sextillion, septillion, octillion, nonillion, decillion, and undecillion.

10. The growth of our mathematical knowledge
In 1900, all the world's mathematical knowledge could be written in 80 books; today it would fill more than 1,00,000 books.

That's all folks!

Interested in General Knowledge and Current Affairs? Click here to stay informed and know what is happening around the world with our G.K. and Current Affairs section.

ADVERTISEMENT

To get more updates on Current Affairs, send in your query by mail to education.intoday@gmail.com

Published By:
AtMigration
Published On:
Apr 11, 2017
--- ENDS ---
AdvertisementAajtak Campus - Your College Search Partner!
Join our WhatsApp Channel
COMMENTS 0
Post your comment here
POST

